Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans :   a computer language used for making software programs and scripts for computers to execute in system applications.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans :   JDK is composed of

What is IDE?
Ans :   Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans :   IntelliJ, Eclipse, Netbeans, JDeveloper, MyEclipse, JSource, DrJava are some.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans :   source code: "java program"
        Compiler:
        Byte code: "Java interpreter"
        Virtual machine: "Computer"

what is class?
Ans :   class is under a package and sets how objects should be made

What is object?
Ans:    created in a class, it set how methods act

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans :   the main method public static void main(String[] args){

Why main is static?
Ans :   because it needs to be called by the compiler to start executing the program

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans :   object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Ans :   Path is an environment variable used to locate JDK binaries. Classpath is an environment variable used by System
        or Application Classloader to locate or compile Java bytecodes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans :   abstract class allows you to create functionality that subclasses can implement or override.
        An interface only allows you to define functionality, not implement it.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans :   No. You can use it by creating a reference variable to reference the object.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans :   (Visibility specifiers) used to restrict and regulate access to classes, fields and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans :   Object-Oriented Programming.
        Encapsulation = Data hiding. template class.
        Polymorphism = Having many forms (method overloading)
        Inheritance = when existing classes sharing attributes with other classes
        Abstraction = taking objects, classes, and variables to represent more complex data

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Ans :   a group of related classes. java.lang is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans :   Application Programming Interface. Facebook, Amazon, and Java are a few APIs I have used to far.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans :   Yes, because more than one interface can be implemented in programming without a problem.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans :   Same method name with different parameters in the same class. happens in polymorphism while compiling.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans :   Exception is an unwanted event that interrupts the normal flow of the program. You can handle it by using try
        catch finally or try with resource.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans :   static keyword is a non-access modifier used primarily for memory management.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans :

What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans :   Final is a keyword used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Can't be inherited, or overridden.
        Finally is a block that is used to place important code that will be executed whether exception is handled or
            not. used in a try/catch statement to execute code
        Finalize is a method used to perform cleanup processing just before an object is collected

What is a constructor ?
Ans :   a block of code that initializes a newly created object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans :   Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans :   the default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans :   a reference to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans :

What is JVM stand for ?
Ans :   Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Ans :   No

What version of java are you using?
Ans :   java version "11.0.8" 2020-07-14 LTS

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans :   Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans :   JDK contains JVM while JVM converts bytecode to machine code and execute it on machine.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans :   JVM converts Byte code to machine specific code while JRE is the implementation of JVM.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans : compile time compiles the program and run time runs it

What is heap?
Ans :

How java manage it's memory?
Ans :   automatically with garbage collector

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans :   String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
        StringBuffer is thread safe and synchronized, StringBuilder is not so its faster
        than StringBuffer.

What is Singleton class?
Ans :

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?